---
title: Forgejo Security Release 1.20.3-0
publishDate: 2023-08-21
tags: ['releases', 'security']
release: 1.20.3-0
excerpt: Forgejo v1.20.3-0 stable release update prevents leaking emails via the API and includes a safeguard to avoid data loss in case `[storage*]` sections in the `app.ini` file do not pass sanity checks.
---

Today [Forgejo v1.20.3-0](https://codeberg.org/forgejo/forgejo/releases/tag/v1.20.3-0) was released.

This release includes safeguards in case `[storage].PATH` is set or conflicting storage sections are found in the `app.ini` file. For instance if both `[storage.packages]` and `[packages]` exist, the directory in which the packages are stored may change after the upgrade. Forgejo will refuse to upgrade from `v1.20.2-0` (or an earlier version) if the sanity checks fail and require manual intervention to avoid data loss, as described below.

It also contains a [security fix that prevents leaking emails via the API](https://codeberg.org/forgejo/forgejo/commit/4fd8ac0653b95fc204eade4471734b23039bca13).

Technical details of these bug fixes are available [in the release notes](https://codeberg.org/forgejo/forgejo/src/branch/forgejo/RELEASE-NOTES.md#1-20-3-0).

> **UPDATE:** this blog post was updated early September 2023 for Forgejo instances using S3 for storage. If you have read the previous version, please [take a look at the diff](https://codeberg.org/forgejo/website/pulls/364/files).

### Recommended Action

We recommend that all installations running a version affected by the issues described below are upgraded to the latest version as soon as possible.

### Fixing the risk of data loss related to `[storage*]` sections

A manual action is required to avoid the risk of losing data if:

- the `app.ini` file contains one or more `[storage*]` sections that are as follows:
  - `[storage].PATH` is set
  - `[attachment]` and `[storage.attachments]` exist
  - `[lfs]` and `[storage.lfs]` exist
  - `[avatar]` and `[storage.avatars]` exist
  - `[repo-avatar]` and `[storage.repo-avatars]` exist
  - `[repo-archive]` and `[storage.repo-archive]` exist
  - `[packages]` and `[storage.packages]` exist
- the `app.ini` file contains `STORAGE_TYPE = minio`
- you are currently currently running:
  - A Forgejo version lower than `v1.20.3-0`
  - A Gitea version lower than `v1.21`

If this is not the case this chapter does not concern you and can be skipped.

#### Bug description

The [storage configuration](https://forgejo.org/docs/v1.20/admin/storage/) in the `app.ini` file was [refactored in
v1.20](https://codeberg.org/forgejo/forgejo/commit/d6dd6d641b593c54fe1a1041c153111ce81dbc20)
and bugs were introduced. There were also bugs in the previous implementation and all versions up to [Forgejo v1.20.2-0](https://codeberg.org/forgejo/forgejo/src/branch/forgejo/RELEASE-NOTES.md#1-20-2-0) are impacted.

These bugs are best explained through an example. By default the files for each
subsystems - Attachments, LFS, Avatars, Repository avatars, Repository
archives, Packages - are stored in a
dedicated directory. For instance if `APP_DATA_PATH` is set to `/data`, the
directory layout looks like this:

```
/data/attachments
/data/lfs
/data/avatars
/data/repo-avatars
/data/repo-archive
/data/packages
```

But if the `app.ini` file contains the
following section and no [other storage related
sections](https://forgejo.org/docs/v1.20/admin/storage/):

```
[storage]
PATH = /my/storage
```

all subsystems will share `/my/storage` instead of having their own
directory. The attachments will be stored in the `/my/storage`
directory, together with the avatars, the repository archives, etc.

#### Bug impact

##### Subsystems sharing a directory

If `[storage].PATH` exists in the `app.ini` file it may cause some subsystems -
Attachments, LFS, Avatars, Repository avatars, Repository archives,
Packages - to share the same directory.

It may not create a problem immediately and can go unnoticed for an
extended period of time. But since each subsystem was designed to have a
dedicated directory it will eventually:

- Create a name clash when one subsystem tries to use the same files as another subsystem
- Permanently destroy data when one subsystems delete files from another subsystem

One example of permanent data loss is when clicking on **Delete all
repositories' archives (ZIP, TAR.GZ, etc..)** in the system
administration web page: it will not only delete the archives but
also attachments, LFS files etc.

##### Misplaced data

When two sections related to a subsystem are found in the `app.ini`
file (for instance `[packages]` and `[storage.packages]`), the
location in which the data is stored may change in an unpredictable
way after the upgrade to `v1.20.3-0`.

Prior to Forgejo v1.20, using `STORAGE_TYPE = minio` in some contexts was ignored and
the files were actually found in local storage (for instance the
[[repo-archive](https://codeberg.org/forgejo/forgejo/src/commit/267967e81da01279808f527b1aad509a9dbd0c1a/.forgejo/upgrades/misplace-s3-app.ini)]
section [as demonstrated by this test](https://codeberg.org/forgejo/forgejo/src/branch/forgejo-development/.forgejo/upgrades/test-upgrade.sh#L451-L469)).

The Forgejo instance will no longer find the files stored in the
previous location and it will [start populating the new location](https://github.com/go-gitea/gitea/issues/26864).
As time passes there will be no way to reconcile the content of the
two locations that diverged in this way.

##### Relative paths inconsistencies

When the path to a `local` storage location does not start with a `/`, it is
interpreted to be relative to another path. Unfortunately the logic
changed across versions, as demonstrated by [an extensive set of tests](https://codeberg.org/forgejo/forgejo/src/commit/52ec2f30a4f7ead2acd0fdaa040662c65181fe35/.forgejo/upgrades/test-upgrade.sh#L211-L291)
going back to `Forgejo v1.18.5-0`.

For instance if `app.ini` contains `[storage.lfs].PATH = somedir` it will end up in:

- `APP_DATA_PATH/lfs` for `Forgejo v1.19.4-0`
- `WORK_PATH/somedir` for `Forgejo v1.20.2-0`
- `APP_DATA_PATH/somedir` for `Forgejo v1.20.3-0`

#### Recommended action

Forgejo supports two storage backends: the file system (the default or
when `STORAGE_TYPE = local` is set) and S3 compatible storage (when
`STORAGE_TYPE = minio` is set). To figure out where each subsystem stores its files before
the upgrade, `grep` the Forgejo logs as shown in the following example:

```
$ grep -e 'New.*Storage()' -e 'Initialising.*storage' < forgejo.log
:initAttachments() [I] Initialising Attachment storage with type:
NewLocalStorage() [I] Creating new Local Storage at /data/gitea/attachments
:initAvatars() [I] Initialising Avatar storage with type:
NewLocalStorage() [I] Creating new Local Storage at /data/gitea/avatars
:initRepoAvatars() [I] Initialising Repository Avatar storage with type:
NewLocalStorage() [I] Creating new Local Storage at /data/gitea/repo-avatars
:initLFS() [I] Initialising LFS storage with type: minio
NewMinioStorage() [I] Creating Minio storage at 127.0.0.1:9000:forgejo with base path lfs/
:initRepoArchives() [I] Initialising Repository Archive storage with type:
NewLocalStorage() [I] Creating new Local Storage at /data/gitea/repo-archive
:initPackages() [I] Initialising Packages storage with type:
NewLocalStorage() [I] Creating new Local Storage at /data/gitea/packages
:initActions() [I] Initialising Actions storage with type: minio
NewMinioStorage() [I] Creating Minio storage at 127.0.0.1:9000:forgejo with base path actions_log/
:initActions() [I] Initialising ActionsArtifacts storage with type: minio
NewMinioStorage() [I] Creating Minio storage at 127.0.0.1:9000:forgejo with base path actions_artifacts/
```

> **NOTE:** when a [Forgejo container](https://forgejo.org/docs/next/admin/installation/#installation-with-docker) is configured using variables such as `-e FORGEJO__storage__PATH=/my/storage`, it will create an `app.ini` file that contains `[storage].PATH`. Removing this variable will not remove the section from the `app.ini` file, it has to be done manually.

Follow the instructions below to update your `app.ini` so that the storage locations stay the same. Keep in mind that some manifestations of these bugs are not covered by the sanity checks preventing an upgrade that may have an impact on the storage location. For instance when relative paths are used in the `app.ini` file or other corner cases that have not been discovered yet.

If you have any doubt about the following steps or if you suspect the storage directories are merged together as described above, [file an issue](https://codeberg.org/forgejo/forgejo/issues) or reach out to [the chatroom](https://matrix.to/#/#forgejo-chat:matrix.org) to get help.

- Before upgrading to Forgejo v1.20.3-0
- Save the output of `grep -e 'New.*Storage()' -e 'Initialising.*storage'`
- For each `local` storage, add a section to `app.ini`, replacing the `PATH` value with the
  absolute path of the directory for each subsystem.
  Check the [table in the documentation](https://forgejo.org/docs/v1.20/admin/storage/) to find the correspondance between the name of the subsystem displayed in the logs and the section in the `app.ini` file.
  For instance, the subsystem `Attachment` is associated with the `[attachment]` section:
  ```
  [attachment]
  PATH = /my/storage/attachments
  ```
- For each `minio` storage, add the following to `app.ini`, replacing the `MINIO_BASE_PATH` value with the
  base path found in the logs (see the grep example above).
  Check the [table in the documentation](https://forgejo.org/docs/v1.20/admin/storage/) for a correspondance between the name of the subsystem displayed in the logs and the section in the `app.ini` file.
  For instance, `LFS` needs:

  ```
  [lfs]
  STORAGE_TYPE = minio
  MINIO_BASE_PATH = mylfs/

  MINIO_ENDPOINT = 127.0.0.1:9000
  MINIO_ACCESS_KEY_ID = [redacted]
  MINIO_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY = [redacted]
  MINIO_BUCKET = forgejo
  MINIO_LOCATION = us-east-1
  ```

- Remove the `[storage]` section from `app.ini`
- Remove the `[server].LFS_CONTENT_PATH` entry from `app.ini` (it is the default for `[lfs].PATH`)
- Remove the `[picture].AVATAR_UPLOAD_PATH` entry from `app.ini` (it is the default for `[avatar].PATH`)
- Remove the `[picture].REPOSITORY_AVATAR_UPLOAD_PATH` entry from `app.ini` (it is the default for `[repo-avatar].PATH`)
- Merge the settings found in related sections together as follow:
  - move the settings found in the `[storage.attachments]` section into the `[attachment]` section and remove it (one plural, the other singular)
  - move the settings found in the `[storage.lfs]` section into the `[lfs]` section and remove it
  - move the settings found in the `[storage.avatars]` section into the `[avatar]` section and remove it (one plural, the other singular)
  - move the settings found in the `[storage.repo-avatars]` section into the `[repo-avatar]` section and remove it (one plural, the other singular)
  - move the settings found in the `[storage.repo-archive]` section into the `[repo-archive]` section and remove it (both singular)
  - move the settings found in the `[storage.packages]` section into the `[packages]` section and remove it (both plural)
- Upgrade to `v1.20.3-0` or a later version
- Verify each subsystem uses the expected storage with `grep -e 'New.*Storage()' -e 'Initialising.*storage`

#### Bug fix and data recovery

After [upgrading to v1.20.3-0](https://codeberg.org/forgejo/forgejo/commit/88f6f7579cdaa557333bc86b3e45bf6458d889b6)
the storage settings can be used as [explained in the documentation](https://forgejo.org/docs/v1.20/admin/storage/).
But there is unfortunately **no way to automatically repair an existing
instance impacted by these bugs during the upgrade**.

To address this problem:

- `v1.20.3-0` and later will **refuse to upgrade** from
  `v1.20.2-0` (or an earlier version) if the sanity checks fail.
  Upgrading without manual verification would be taking the risk of
  silently changing the location in which a subsystem expects to find its files. The data would not be lost
  because it would still exist in the former location, but Forgejo will not find it any more.
  The new location will start being populated
  in a way that may be impossible to reconcile with the content of the former location.
- `v1.20` point releases from `v1.20.3-0` and later will **refuse to
  downgrade** to `v1.20.1-0` or `v1.20.2-0`. Although it is usually
  possible to downgrade from a point release to a lower point release,
  it is forbidden in this case to protect the Forgejo instance from
  any risk of data loss.

> **NOTE:** A recovery strategy to separate directories that were previously merged together can be to duplicate the merged data into the target directories. There can still be name clashes and it only works for `local` storage if the amount of data is not too large.

### Get Forgejo v1.20

See the [download page](/download)
for instructions on how to install Forgejo, and read the
[release notes](https://codeberg.org/forgejo/forgejo/src/branch/forgejo/RELEASE-NOTES.md#1-20-3-0)
for more information.

### Upgrading

Carefully read
[the breaking changes](https://codeberg.org/forgejo/forgejo/src/branch/forgejo/RELEASE-NOTES.md#1-20-3-0)
section of the release notes.

The actual upgrade process is as simple as replacing the binary or container image
with the corresponding [Forgejo binary](https://codeberg.org/forgejo/forgejo/releases/tag/v1.20.3-0)
or [container image](https://codeberg.org/forgejo/-/packages/container/forgejo/1.20.3-0).
If you're using the container images, you can use the
[`1.20` tag](https://codeberg.org/forgejo/-/packages/container/forgejo/1.20)
to stay up to date with the latest `1.20.x` point release automatically.

Make sure to check the [Forgejo upgrade
documentation](/docs/v1.20/admin/upgrade) for
recommendations on how to properly backup your instance before the
upgrade. It also covers upgrading from Gitea, as far back as version 1.2.0.
Forgejo includes all of Gitea v1.20.

### Contribute to Forgejo

If you have any feedback or suggestions for Forgejo do not hold back, it is also your project.
Open an issue in [the issue tracker](https://codeberg.org/forgejo/forgejo/issues)
for feature requests or bug reports, reach out [on the Fediverse](https://floss.social/@forgejo),
or drop into [the Matrix space](https://matrix.to/#/#forgejo:matrix.org)
([main chat room](https://matrix.to/#/#forgejo-chat:matrix.org)) and say hi!
