---
title: Forgejo Security Release 1.20.5-1
publishDate: 2023-11-25
tags: ['releases', 'security']
release: 1.20.5-1
excerpt: The Forgejo v1.20.5-1 release contains critical security fixes related to permissions enforcement of API endpoints.
---

[Forgejo v1.20.5-1](https://codeberg.org/forgejo/forgejo/releases/tag/v1.20.5-1) was released 25 November 2023.

This release contains _critical security fixes_ related to permissions enforcement of API endpoints.

This release also contains bug fixes, as detailed [in the release notes](https://codeberg.org/forgejo/forgejo/src/branch/forgejo/RELEASE-NOTES.md#1-20-5-1).

### Recommended Action

We _strongly recommend_ that all Forgejo installations are upgraded to the latest version as soon as possible.

### API and web endpoint vulnerable to manually crafted identifiers

Some API endpoints, such as [adding a reaction to a comment](https://code.forgejo.org/api/swagger#/issue/issuePostCommentReaction), rely on an identifier unique to an object (a comment in this example). There are similar cases for web endpoints which are used by the Forgejo web interface.

The permissions required for the user performing the action on the
repository are properly enforced. But a check was missing to ensure
that the object (a comment in the example) also belongs to the
repository the permissions are checked against. Without this check it
is possible both to perform destructive actions and to access
information in repositories unrelated to the request, including
private ones.

API and web endpoints have been analysed, and those that were missing such a verification can be exploited by a malicious actor to:

- delete releases and tags
- delete and modify issues or pull requests comments
- reveal the content of issues or pull requests comments from private repositories
- perform other non-destructive actions such as creating issues, moving pinned issues, or obtaining deploy public keys

The vulnerable endpoints were fixed and tests written to verify the fix is effective.

### docker login and 2FA

When using `docker login` to authenticate against a Forgejo instance
using basic authentication, there needs to be an additional
verification if 2FA is activated for the user. That verification was
missing for the API endpoint used by `docker login`, thus bypassing
2FA.

### Responsible disclosure to Gitea

On 25 October 2023 the Forgejo security team identified that multiple
API and web endpoints were not protected against manually crafted
identifiers, and the Gitea security team was notified. A 30-day
embargo was requested, after which a patch to the v1.20 point release
could be published. Further research from both Gitea and Forgejo teams
in the following days revealed more vulnerabilities. Initial fixes and
tests verifying they are effective were exchanged, but after their
last email on 31 October 2023 the Gitea security team stopped
responding. Given the severity of the vulnerability, the Forgejo
security team asked again for feedback on 16 November 2023, but did
not get any reply. Having exhausted all options for cooperation, the
Forgejo security team completed the security fix on its own. The
resulting fix which is published in this release was sent to the Gitea
security team encrypted in its final version on 24 November 2023. At
the time of publication, there was still no response from the Gitea
security team.

### Responsible disclosure to Gogs

The Gogs developer was notified of the vulnerability on 25 October 2023. There is no encrypted channel and only a terse but unambiguous
message was sent. There has been no response.

### Forgejo will give advance warning of security releases

Similar to what is done when a Go release contains a security fix,
Forgejo will now publish advance warning of security releases. They
will not reveal the details of the vulnerability but will allow
Forgejo admins to plan ahead and better secure their instance. Anyone
can watch to the
[dedicated tracker](https://codeberg.org/forgejo/security-announcements/) or
[subscribe to the RSS feed](https://codeberg.org/forgejo/security-announcements.rss).

### Gogs and Gitea upgrades to Forgejo

Gitea admins are reminded that Forgejo is a 100% compatible drop-in replacement for Gitea. It is enough to replace the Gitea binary or the container image with Forgejo and restart. No configuration modification is necessary. They are encouraged to choose that option to get this security fix as soon as possible.

In the absence of a security fix for Gogs, it is also possible to try and upgrade Gogs to Forgejo. Note however that such an upgrade will require manual intervention and configuration changes because the upgrade path has not been tested.

### Contribute to Forgejo

If you have any feedback or suggestions for Forgejo, we'd love to hear from you! Open an issue on [our issue tracker](https://codeberg.org/forgejo/forgejo/issues) for feature requests or bug reports. You can also find us [on the Fediverse](https://floss.social/@forgejo), or drop by [our Matrix space](https://matrix.to/#/#forgejo:matrix.org) ([main chat room](https://matrix.to/#/#forgejo-chat:matrix.org)) to say hi!
